# GoPro2GSV

Here are Trek View we use GoPro Fusion and MAX cameras to record 360 images and videos.

The results of this work is published to either Google StreetView or Mapillary. In many cases we apply a nadir to these images to brand the video with our logo before uploading them.

Both these tools accept video uploads containing GPMF telemetry tracks.

To suport this workflow GoPro2GSV supports 6 modes;

1. equirectangular mp4 video -> final video
2. equirectangular timelapse frames -> final video
3. equirectangular mp4 video -> timelapse frames -> final video
4. .360 mode -> max2sphere -> timelapse frames -> final video (for MAX cameras)
5. dual fisheye timelapse frames -> fusion2sphere -> timelapse frames -> final video (for Fusion cameras)
6. dual fisheye mp4 video -> timelapse frames -> final video (for Fusion cameras)

Each mode offer different settings, but ultimately the aim of GoPro2GSV is for a user to take any 360 image or video generated by a GoPro 

**IMPORTANT:** GoPro2GSV does not support videos shot in timelapse or timewarp mode. This is because the logic described in the following posts is not implemented;

* Timelapse: https://www.trekview.org/blog/turn-gopro-timelapse-video-into-timelapse-images/
* Timewarp: https://www.trekview.org/blog/turn-gopro-timewarp-video-into-timelapse-images/ 

## Usage

### Setup

Install the required dependencies using:

```shell
# clone the latest code
git clone https://github.com/trek-view/gopro2gsv
cd gopro2gsv
# create a venv
python3 -m venv gopro2gsv-venv
source gopro2gsv-venv/bin/activate
# install requirements
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

You will also need: 

* [Imagemagick](https://imagemagick.org/script/download.php)
* [ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html)
* [exiftool](https://exiftool.org/install.html)

These must be installed in the path. You can check this by running `magick`, `ffmpeg` , `exiftool` from the CLI. If it returns information about the tools, they are correctly installed.

On a Mac, you can install these quickly using brew as follows;

```shell
brew install ffmpeg exiftool imagemagick
```

If these are installed in the default paths no more action is needed (generally the case if installed using defaults). However, if the paths are custom, you will need to set these in the `.env` file under:

```txt
MAGICK_PATH=
FFMPEG_PATH=
EXIFTOOL_PATH=
```

### If you intent to upload to Street View

You need to set your Google keys if you intend to upload to GSV. First copy the `.env` file

```shell
cp .env.example .env
```

And then add your keys. The process to generated keys is described in `design/mvp/gsv-specification.md`

### Run

The base script can be run as follows;

```shell
python3 gopro2gsv.py
```

The options available to run differ by mode as follows;

#### Timelapse photo to video mode:

* `--input_directory` (required): for timelapse photo mode, the path to the directory of `.jpg` images
	* e.g. `/path/to/my/directory`
* `--path_to_nadir` (optional): a square nadir to be added to the images.
	* e.g. `/path/to/nadir.png`
* `--size_of_nadir` (optional, must use with `--path_to_nadir`): percentage height of output video nadir should cover. Default is 25% if not passed.
	* e.g. `25` (%)
* `--output_filepath` (required): name of video and directory for output. All log and GPX files will be named / placed using this information.
	* e.g. `/path/to/my/file-out.mp4`
* `--upload_to_streetview` (optional): if passed will upload the image to StreetView (will require user to authenticate)


Example:

```shell
python3 gopro2gsv.py \
--upload_to_streetview \
--input_directory path/to/timelapse_photos/ \
--path_to_nadir stock_nadirs/without_gopro/trek_view_full_nadir.png \
--output_filepath path/to/timelapse_photos/video.mp4
```

#### Video to video mode:

* `--input_video` (required): for timelapse video mode, the path to the `.mp4` video
	* e.g. `/path/to/my/file-in.mp4`
* `--path_to_nadir` (required): a square nadir to be added to the images
	* e.g. `/path/to/nadir.png`
* `--upload_to_streetview` (optional): if passed will upload the image to StreetView (will require user to authenticate)
* `--output_filepath` (required): name of video and directory for output
	* e.g. `/path/to/my/file-out.mp4`

Example:

```shell
python3 gopro2gsv.py \
--upload_to_streetview \
----input_video path/to/video.mp4 \
--path_to_nadir stock_nadirs/without_gopro/trek_view_full_nadir.png \
--output_filepath path/to/video-with-nadir.mp4
```

#### Check for Street View Status updates

The following flag can be run in isolation to simply run update checks on all uploads that are not in `PROCESSED` or `FAILED`

* `--refresh_upload_status`: rechecks all GSV uploaded sequences not in `PROCESSED` or `FAILED` states. [More on Google Street View States here](https://developers.google.com/streetview/publish/reference/rest/v1/photoSequence/create#PhotoSequence).

## License

[Apache 2.0](/LICENSE).